README.md, before:

# CITE-wrangling

Basic workflow for the wrangling of CITE-seq data.

### 1. Requirements

Check that the software and hardware requirements have been met.
* Docker 20.10
* At least 30GB free on disk
* A lot of RAM (I haven't estimated exactly how much but it should be more than 50GB)
* Stable internet connection (otherwise you won't be able to run the whole thing)

### 2. Clone the repo

Download or clone the repo: 
```
git clone https://github.com/bernibra/CITE-wrangling.git
```

### 3. Build Docker image and run container

Type the following commands in the working directory (you might need [sudo rights](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)):
```
docker build --rm --force-rm -t cite-wrangling .
docker run -d -e DISABLE_AUTH=true --rm -p 28787:8787 -v $PWD:/home/rstudio/cite-wrangling -e USERID="$(echo $UID)" -e GROUPID="$(echo $GID)" --name cite-wrangling-container cite-wrangling
```
_Building the docker image might take a bit of time, so go grab a coffee in the mean time_

### 4. Download and process the data

You can do this by running the makefile:
```
docker exec -u rstudio cite-wrangling-container make -C /home/rstudio/cite-wrangling
```
_The first time runing this might take some time again, you might want to run it over night_

### 5. Other
_5.1. Testing code_: 

you can edit or develop new code and test it in the docker container by adding the code to the directory (`./code/`), rebuilding the docker image (step 3), and accessing the container through your web browser at <yourhostip:28787> (`hostname -I` in the terminal to find your host ip). It might not work if you are connected to a vpn.

_5.2. Adding new datasets_:

new datasets can be added, but one needs to follow [certain instructions](data/README.md) to preserve the workflow.

_5.3. Potential problems_:
- if the internet connection is not stable, some of the datasets might have problems downloading. The automatically generated file `GEOrawDataNotFound.txt` reports on some of these problems. One possibility is to rerun the code. To do so, first delete the directory in `data/raw` for the corresponding id. Then, open and R session and run `drake::clean()` or delete the `.drake` directory. Then, one can simply execute the project workflow again (todo: simplify this so that drake identifies it; I belive `file_out()` will do the trick). That said, sometimes it's simply that the file does not exist (go figure!), in which case there is not much that the pipline can do. Maybe you should email the authors.
- if you have limited RAM, some of the datasets might have problems processing. The automatically generated file `NOTenoughRAM.txt` report on these problems. The RAM limitations can only be easily solved by using a machine with more RAM (or requesting additional RAM if running on a computer cluster). The only alternative is to split any big files into smaller ones (see an example of how to do this in function `split_big_file()` from `code/load_files.R`)

### 6. Alternative way to run the repository: a parallelized approach

There are not many good reasons for not building a container for this repository, but one of them is for running the whole thing in some computer cluster where C libraries need to be built locally. I am sure there are smart work-arounds for this, but I haven't really been able to figure it out.

The first step is installing all libraries manually (and it would probably be a good idea to work with the versions specified in the `Dockerfile`). Once this is done, one should be able to directly run the `main.R` file to download and process the data (the advantage of the `drake` package is that the pipeline is well defined there). Now, one might want to take advantage (or _need_ to take advantage) of the cluster's many cores to process the data. Since we are not running everything through the Docker image, we can now process the datasets one-by-one. To do so, we can execute the `main.R` with an additional argument specifying a dataset index. That should process only one dataset. 

For the sake of running this pipeline in a computer cluster, one can also specify where the files are being stored by changing the `config.yaml` file accordingly (see argument `dest_dir`)

Commit message:

Adding list of papers to README

README.md, after:

# CITE-wrangling

Basic workflow for the wrangling of CITE-seq data. A full list of the datasets used at the moment can be found [here](data/list-of-papers.md)

### 1. Requirements

Check that the software and hardware requirements have been met.
* Docker 20.10
* At least 30GB free on disk
* A lot of RAM (I haven't estimated exactly how much but it should be more than 50GB)
* Stable internet connection (otherwise you won't be able to run the whole thing)

### 2. Clone the repo

Download or clone the repo: 
```
git clone https://github.com/bernibra/CITE-wrangling.git
```

### 3. Build Docker image and run container

Type the following commands in the working directory (you might need [sudo rights](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/)):
```
docker build --rm --force-rm -t cite-wrangling .
docker run -d -e DISABLE_AUTH=true --rm -p 28787:8787 -v $PWD:/home/rstudio/cite-wrangling -e USERID="$(echo $UID)" -e GROUPID="$(echo $GID)" --name cite-wrangling-container cite-wrangling
```
_Building the docker image might take a bit of time, so go grab a coffee in the mean time_

### 4. Download and process the data

You can do this by running the makefile:
```
docker exec -u rstudio cite-wrangling-container make -C /home/rstudio/cite-wrangling
```
_The first time runing this might take some time again, you might want to run it over night_

### 5. Other
_5.1. Testing code_: 

you can edit or develop new code and test it in the docker container by adding the code to the directory (`./code/`), rebuilding the docker image (step 3), and accessing the container through your web browser at <yourhostip:28787> (`hostname -I` in the terminal to find your host ip). It might not work if you are connected to a vpn.

_5.2. Adding new datasets_:

new datasets can be added, but one needs to follow [certain instructions](data/README.md) to preserve the workflow.

_5.3. Potential problems_:
- if the internet connection is not stable, some of the datasets might have problems downloading. The automatically generated file `GEOrawDataNotFound.txt` reports on some of these problems. One possibility is to rerun the code. To do so, first delete the directory in `data/raw` for the corresponding id. Then, open and R session and run `drake::clean()` or delete the `.drake` directory. Then, one can simply execute the project workflow again (todo: simplify this so that drake identifies it; I belive `file_out()` will do the trick). That said, sometimes it's simply that the file does not exist (go figure!), in which case there is not much that the pipline can do. Maybe you should email the authors.
- if you have limited RAM, some of the datasets might have problems processing. The automatically generated file `NOTenoughRAM.txt` report on these problems. The RAM limitations can only be easily solved by using a machine with more RAM (or requesting additional RAM if running on a computer cluster). The only alternative is to split any big files into smaller ones (see an example of how to do this in function `split_big_file()` from `code/load_files.R`)

### 6. Alternative way to run the repository: a parallelized approach

There are not many good reasons for not building a container for this repository, but one of them is for running the whole thing in some computer cluster where C libraries need to be built locally. I am sure there are smart work-arounds for this, but I haven't really been able to figure it out.

The first step is installing all libraries manually (and it would probably be a good idea to work with the versions specified in the `Dockerfile`). Once this is done, one should be able to directly run the `main.R` file to download and process the data (the advantage of the `drake` package is that the pipeline is well defined there). Now, one might want to take advantage (or _need_ to take advantage) of the cluster's many cores to process the data. Since we are not running everything through the Docker image, we can now process the datasets one-by-one. To do so, we can execute the `main.R` with an additional argument specifying a dataset index. That should process only one dataset. 

For the sake of running this pipeline in a computer cluster, one can also specify where the files are being stored by changing the `config.yaml` file accordingly (see argument `dest_dir`)
